Todo project according to Stephen Covey method
Belangrijk en/of urgent
Je bedenkt of een taak belangrijk en/of urgent is. Heel simpel: een taak is belangrijk of niet. En een taak is urgent of niet. Meer smaken zijn er niet ;-) Zo kom je dus aan vier kwadranten.
Kwadrant 1: Belangrijk en urgent
Dit is het kwadrant van branden blussen: het oplossen van allerlei acute problemen, klachten, projecten met een deadline op korte termijn. Dit moet gedaan worden en het kan niet wachten.
Kwadrant 2: Belangrijk maar niet urgent
Dit is het belangrijkste kwadrant. Hier ligt de basis voor succes. Misschien valt het je niet mee om genoeg ruimte voor dit kwadrant te vinden, maar het is echt superbelangrijk. Want in dit kwadrant kun je plannen en verbeteren, hier is ruimte voor ontwikkeling en kansen!
Kwadrant 3: Onbelangrijk en urgent
In dit kwadrant ben je de branden van anderen aan het blussen. Iemand anders verwacht dat jij zijn problemen wel even op zult lossen. Of je wordt om de haverklap gestoord of gebeld of gemaild over onbelangrijke zaken. Als je niet oppast krijg jij allerlei extra (voor jou onbelangrijke) taken die je eigenlijk niet wilt.
Kwadrant 4: Onbelangrijk en niet urgent
Dit kwadrant moet je zoveel mogelijk vermijden, want hier doe je onnodige dingen: overmatig internetten, spelletjes doen en tv kijken bijvoorbeeld. Dit zou je het ‘vluchtkwadrant’ kunnen noemen. Als je geen zin hebt in je werk of geen duidelijke doelen hebt is het oh zo verleidelijk om met allerlei kwadrant 4 dingen bezig te gaan.
1. Manage: Urgent and important First area of the matrix is related to activities that are immediate and substantial. Those are deadlines, last minute preparations, exams, both medical and other “real” emergencies, crises, and meaningful appointments. These things have to be done as soon as possible, so do not wait for too long and just do them!
2. Focus: Not urgent, but important Covey emphasizes this particular area especially. It is not urgent but seems to be the most important one. It is the space for self-development, strategic thinking and planning, problem prevention, preparations, opportunities searching and genuine relationship building. It is also a space for planning and experiencing a real relaxation that will feed your creativity. Do you have in mind any professional or personal development? Would you like to improve your leadership skills? Plan it and do it.
It maybe sounds odd, but for many people including me, it is hard to focus on themselves. To many of us, other people needs have bigger importance than our desires and plans. Do you remember the famous rule of the aircraft emergency? First put your vest, then assist the children. To be ready to help with pleasure and empathy, we should first take care of ourselves!
3. Avoid: Urgent, but not important In many cases, we recognize activities as urgent and important, but as a matter of fact their importance is incredibly small. Reporting, answering calls and emails, solving somebody else’s problems and maintaining shallow relationships are the most popular interruptions. They take a lot of time and do not allow us to focus on the most important things. Avoiding them would save you a lot of frustration. Sometimes it seems to be not possible, but if you stay close to yourself, you will manage to get rid of them. Make small steps and slowly redirect your attention to the second field, the area of focus.
4. Limit: Neither urgent nor important Okay, nobody is perfect. We all watch nonsense movies, read crappy books, follow news in social media or gossip from time to time. But what if all those activities take most of the precious time? Whenever you open the Facebook, Twitter or start watching a soap opera make a note. Do it for seven days and then double check how much time do you spend on time wasters. With a bit of effort, you should be able to replace them with healthy relaxation, comfortable and healing sleep, nutritious and food preparation. On top of that you will have much more time for doing things that you actually love!
Summarizing, the Covey’s Time Management Grid can impact your life in a very positive way. Stay open, observe yourself, make notes and check your routines. You are the king (or queen) of your time, and only you can make a decision to make it a quality time. Do not complain anymore and start to change the world for yourself!

